Mortals! Hear the sacred cry: Freedom, freedom, freedom! Hear the noise of broken chains, see noble Equality enthroned. Rises to the heights of the Earth a new and glorious nation, its head crowned with laurels, and at her feet lying a Lion. May the laurels be eternal, the ones we managed to win Let us live crowned with glory or swear to die gloriously From the new Champions their faces Mars himself seems to encourage Greatness nestles in their bodies: at their march they make everything tremble. The dead Inca are shaken, and in their bones the ardour revives which renews their children of the Motherland the ancient splendour. Mountain ranges and walls are felt to resound with horrible din: the whole country is disturbed by cries of revenge, of war and rage. In the fiery tyrants the envy spit the pestipherous bile; their bloody standard they rise provoking the most cruel combat. Don't you see them over Mexico and Quito throwing themselves with tenacious viciousness? And who they cry, bathed in blood, Potosí, Cochabamba and La Paz? Don't you see them over sad Caracas spreading mourning and weeping and death? Don't you see them devouring as wild animals all people who surrender to them? To you it dares, Argentines, the pride of the vile invader; your fields it steps on, retelling so many glories as winner. But the brave ones, that united swore their merry freedom to sustain, to those blood-thirsty tigers bold breasts they will know to oppose. The valiant Argentine to arms runs burning with determination and bravery, the war bugler, as thunder, in the fields of the South resounds. Buenos Ayres opposes, leading the people of the illustrious Union, and with robust arms they tear the arrogant Iberian lion. San José, San Lorenzo, Suipacha, both Piedras, Salta and Tucumán, La Colonia and the same walls of the tyrant in the Banda Oriental. They are eternal signboards they say: here the Argentine arm found triumph, here the fierce oppressor of the Motherland his proud neck bent. Victory to the Argentine warrior covered with its brilliant wings, and embarrassed at this view the tyrant with infamy took to flight. Its flags, its arms surrender as trophies to freedom, and above wings of glory the people rise the worthy throne of their great majesty. From one pole to the other resounds the fame of the sonorous bugler, and of America the name showing they repeat "Mortals, hear: The United Provinces of the South have now displayed their most honorable throne". And the free people of the world reply: "We salute the great people of Argentina!"