Bolivians: favourable destiny Crowned our votes and desires It is now free, this land is now free And now its servile condition has ended From the military uproar that was yesterday And from the cry of the terrible war Today follow, in peaceful contrast Sweet hymns of peace and union Today follow, in peaceful contrast Sweet hymns of peace and union   Of the homeland, the lofty name In glorious splendour may we keep [it] And in its honour let's swear once again: To die before living as slaves! To die before living as slaves! To die before living as slaves!   Eternal praise to the brave warriors Whose heroic courage and determination Won the glories that today Bolivia happily begins to enjoy May their names, in marble and bronze, Be transmitted to future ages And in resounding song repeat: Freedom, freedom, freedom! And in resounding song repeat: Freedom, freedom, freedom!   Of the homeland, the lofty name In glorious splendour may we keep [it] And in its honour let's swear once again: To die before living as slaves! To die before living as slaves! To die before living as slaves! Here justice set up its throne That does not recognise vile oppression And in its glorious stamp let us rejoice Freedom, freedom, freedom This innocent and beautiful land That has its name because of Bolívar 1 It is the happy homeland where man Enjoys good fortune and peace It is the happy homeland where man Enjoys good fortune and peace   Of the homeland, the lofty name In glorious splendour may we keep [it] And in its honour let's swear once again: To die before living as slaves! To die before living as slaves! To die before living as slaves!   If a foreign power one day Tries to subjugate Bolivia Let it be prepared for the fatal destiny That threatens the arrogant invader Let the sons of the great Bolívar Have sworn a thousand times over: To die before seeing the majestic banner Of the homeland lowered To die before seeing the majestic banner Of the homeland lowered   Of the homeland, the lofty name In glorious splendour may we keep [it] And in its honour let's swear once again: To die before living as slaves! To die before living as slaves! To die before living as slaves!