Oh, unwithering glory! Oh, immortal jubilance! In furrows of pain, goodness now germinates. The dreadful night has ceased. Sublime Liberty beams forth the dawn of her invincible light. All of humanity that groans within its chains, understands the words of He who died on the cross. "Independence!" shouts the American world; The land of Columbus. Is bathed in heroes' blood. But this great doctrine; "The king is not the sovereign", resounds, and those who suffer bless their passion. The Orinoco's bed Is heaped with plunder, Of blood and tears A river is seen to flow. neither souls nor eyes, know whether admiration to feel or fear to suffer. On the shores of the Caribbean, a famished people fight, preferring horror to fickle health. O, aye! from Cartagena heavy is the hardship, and death's rubble her virtue disdains From in the fields, the genius of glory, from every sprig a hero was crowned undefeated. Soldiers without armor won the victory; their virile spirit served them as a shield. Bolívar crosses the Andes bathed by two oceans, swords as though sparks flash in . Indomitable centaurs descend to the plains, and a premonition begins to be felt, of the epic's end. The victorious trumpet in Ayacucho loudly thunders, as in every triumph grows its formidable sound. In its expansive thrust Liberty is first felt, from the American sky forming a pavilion. In agony, the Virgin Tears out her hair, and bereft of her love, leaves it to hang on a cypress. Regretting her hope covered by a cold headstone, but glorious pride hallows her fair skin. Thus the motherland is formed, Thermopylaes bursting forth; a constellation of cyclops the night did brighten. The trembling flower finding the wind mortal, underneath the laurels safety sought. But it's not complete glory to defeat in battle, the arm that fights is encouraged by truth. For independence alone The great clamour doesn't silence; if the sun shines on everyone, justice is liberty. Of men the rights preaching, the soul of struggle was prophetically taught. Ricaurte in San Mateo, in atoms flying, "Duty before life," with flames he wrote.