We greet you, Oh Fatherland, a thousand times! Oh Fatherland, Glory be to you! Glory be to you! Your breast, your breast, overflows, Your breast overflows with joy and peace; And your radiant face, your radiant face is brighter than the shining sun we see. Your children were outraged by the yoke That Iberian audacity imposed on you, By the unjust and horrendous disgrace Fatally weighing upon you. They cried out a holy voice to the heavens, that noble voice of a unbreakable pledge, to defeat that monster of blood, that this servile yoke would disappear. The first ones, the sons of the soil Which Pichincha adorns proudly, They declared you as their sovereign lady forever And shed their blood for you. God observed and accepted the holocaust, And that blood was the prolific seed Of other heroes whom the world in astonishment Saw rise up around you by the thousands. Rise up by the thousands, Rise up by the thousands. Of those heroes of iron arm No land was invincible, And from the valley to the highest sierra You could hear the roar of the fray. After the fray, Victory would fly, Freedom after the triumph would come, And the Lion was heard broken With a roar of helplessness and despair. At last Spanish ferocity yielded, And now, oh Fatherland, your free existence Is the noble and magnificent heritage Which the felicitous heroism gave us.: It was given to us from our Fathers' hands, Let no one take it from us now, Nor any daring fool wish to excite Our vengeful anger against himself. May no one, oh Fatherland, try it. The shadows of Your glorious heroes watch us, And the valor and pride that they inspire Are omens of victories for you. Come lead and the striking iron, That the idea of war and revenge Wakes the heroic strength That made the fierce Spanish succumb. And if new chains are prepared by The barbaric injustice of fate, Great Pichincha! May you prevent the death Of the country and their children in the end; Sink to the deep point in your gut All that exists on your soil. Let the tyrant Tread only ashes and in vain Look for any trace of being beside you.