Arise, children of the Fatherland, The day of glory has arrived! Against us, tyranny's Bloody standard is raised, Do you hear, in the countryside, The roar of those ferocious soldiers? They're coming right into your arms To cut the throats of your sons, your women! To arms, citizens, Form your battalions, Let's march, let's march! Let an impure blood Water our furrows! What does this horde of slaves, Of traitors and conspiring kings want? For whom have these vile chains, These irons, been long prepared? Frenchmen, for us, ah! What outrage What furious action it must arouse! It is to us they dare plan A return to the old slavery! To arms, citizens ... What! Foreign cohorts Would make the law in our homes! What! These mercenary phalanxes Would strike down our proud warriors! Great God! By chained hands Our brows would yield under the yoke! Vile despots would themselves become The masters of our destinies! To arms, citizens ... Tremble, tyrants and you traitors The shame of all parties, Tremble! Your parricidal schemes Will finally receive their prize! Everyone is a soldier to combat you, If they fall, our young heroes, Will be produced anew from the ground, Ready to fight against you! To arms, citizens ... Frenchmen, as magnanimous warriors, Bear or hold back your blows! Spare those sorry victims, For regretfully arming against us. But these bloodthirsty despots, These accomplices of Bouillé, All these tigers who mercilessly Tear apart their mother's breast! To arms, citizens ... Sacred love of the Fatherland, Lead, support our avenging arms Liberty, cherished Liberty, Fight with thy defenders! Under our flags may victory Hurry to thy manly accents, So that thy expiring enemies See thy triumph and our glory! To arms, citizens ... We shall enter the military career When our elders are no longer there, There we shall find their dust And the trace of their virtues Much less keen to survive them Than to share their coffins, We shall have the sublime pride To avenge or follow them. To arms, citizens ... 