Your flag, your flag is a piece of sky crossed, oh crossed by a dash of snow. And on its hallowed ground can be seen five stars of a pale blue. On your crest, that a clamorous sea shields with its roaring waves. Beyond a volcano, beyond a volcano its top bared there's a star, there's a star of radiant light.   Indian, virgin and beautiful you slept to the resounding chants of your sea, when, lying in your golden banks the bold navogator found you, and awe-struck at beholding your beauty under the perfect thrall of your charm, the blue hem of your splendid cape sanctified with his kiss of love.    Of a country where the sun rises, beyond the blue Atlantic, that man that had dreamed of you and set out to sea looking for you. When you raised your pale forehead, on the living anxiety of your longing, under the gentle dome of your sky a strange banner already floated.    It was useless that your beloved, the indian wrathfully prepared for the fight, because, his Lempirian blood wrapped around him he sunk into the depths of night. And of the epic deed, in his memory, only the legend has been kept, the place of its burial unknown to all and the stoic profile of a crag.    For three hundred your children heard the imperative call of the master, for three centuries your useless call got lost in the blue air. But one day, glory, your ear sensed that, powerful and distant, that far away, across the Atlantic, a lion roared in indignation.    It was France, the free, the heroic, that asleep in his centuries long dream, awakened, infuriated, to life at the virile call of Danton, it was France, that sent forth to death the head of the consecrated King, and that built, proud at its side the altar of the goddess Reason.    You too, o homeland! did rise of your deep, servile sleep and you, too, showed the world that laid in pieces the infamous link of your chain. And in your blessed soil, beyond the tall mane of the savage mountain, like a bird of black plumage, the short-lived colony was lost.    So as to keep this divine crest O homeland, we'll march into death. Our luck will be generous if we die while thinking of your love, defending your sacred flag. And many, Honduras, will be your dead wrapped up in your glorious folds, but all will fall with honor. https://lyricstranslate.com