We are free! May we always be so, may we always be so! And may the Sun renounce its light, its light, its light, Before we break the solemn vow which the homeland lifted up to the Eternal, Before we break the solemn vow which the homeland lifted up to the Eternal. Before we break the solemn vow which the homeland lifted up to the Eternal. For a long time the oppressed Peruvian the ominous chain he dragged Condemned to a cruel servitude for a long time, for a long time for a long time he quietly moaned But as soon as the sacred cry Freedom! in its coasts was heard the slaves' indolence shakes the humiliated, the humiliated, the humiliated neck raised up, the humiliated neck raised up, neck raised up We are free! May we always be so, may we always be so! And may the Sun renounce its light, its light, its light, Before we break the solemn vow which the homeland lifted up to the Eternal, Before we break the solemn vow which the homeland lifted up to the Eternal. Before we break the solemn vow which the homeland lifted up to the Eternal. Now the roar of rough chains that we had heard for three centuries of horror from the free, at the sacred cry that the world heard astonished, ceased. Everywhere the inflamed San Martín "Freedom", "Freedom" he pronounced; and the Andes, rocking their base, announced it as well, in unison. With its influx the peoples woke up, and like lighting ran the opinion; from the Isthmus to the Tierra del Fuego, and from Tierra del Fuego to the icy regions. Everyone vowed to break the link that Nature denied to both worlds, and break the sceptre that Spain had reclined, proudly, on both. Lima fulfilled this solemn vow, and, severe, its anger showed by throwing out the powerless tyrant, who had been trying to extend his oppression. On its endeavor the shackles cracked, and the furrows that it had repaired in itself stirred up its hatred and vengeance, inherited from its Inca and Lord. Countrymen, may we see it a slave no more. If for three centuries it moaned, humiliated, forever may we swear it'd be free, maintaining its own splendor. Our arms, until today unarmed, be they always readying the cannon, that some day the beaches of Iberia will feel the horror of its roar. May we arouse the jealousy of Spain since it has a premonition, with want and furor, that in a contest of great nations our country will enter in comparison. On the list formed by these we shall fill the line first, ahead of the ambitious Iberian tyrant, who devastated all of America. On its summits may the Andes sustain the two-color flag or standard, may it announce to the centuries the effort that being free, that being free that being free gave us forever. Under its shadow may we live calmly and, at birth of the sun in its summits, may we all renew the great oath that we rendered, that we rendered that we rendered to the God of Jacob, that we rendered to the God of Jacob, the God of Jacob. We are free! May we always be so, may we always be so! And may the Sun renounce its light, its light, its light, Before we break the solemn vow which the homeland lifted up to the Eternal, Before we break the solemn vow which the homeland lifted up to the Eternal. Before we break the solemn vow which the homeland lifted up to the Eternal.